---
layout: page
title: "It Gets Easier"
date:   2016-06-20 18:00:00 -0500
time: 1
categories: Experience
image: bowling
permalink: easier
description: At the start of week five, I've noticed something. I've noticed that things are going a lot smoother. Now that I've gotten some experience working on several parts of Punchmark's framework, and am generally familiar with their database structure, I am much sharper in my work.
---
At the start of week five, I've noticed something. I've noticed that things are going a lot smoother. Now that I've gotten some experience working on several parts of Punchmark's framework, and am generally familiar with their database structure, I am much sharper in my work.

Today I experimented with what I'm calling "The Art of Single Tasking". It's an emerging common knowledge that there is no such thing as multitasking. Our brains can only switch between tasks very rapidly. We're like single core processors, except that that switch is very glucose expensive. Multitasking not only makes for poorer work but a more tiring work day.

I can relate to this feeling all too much. I distract easily. Usually, because I just have too much going on in my life and work. Too much that needs tending to NOW! I'm all about simple mindset changes that cause rippling effects. I had to give this one a try.

These days, my work is not hindered as much by waiting for replies to my questions from my supervisor. My supervisor on another continent, mind you. Since I am actually able to put solid hours of attention to a project, single tasking has never been easier and my work has never been more efficient.

Although its only been a day, let's see how long I can keep this streak up!
