---
layout: page
title: "3 BIG Things I'm Learning"
date:   2016-05-23 13:34:17 -0500
time: 1
categories: Experience
time: 1
image: glass
description:
permalink: summerlearning
---

* **Full-Stack Development**

I want to have some experience working on every part of the software/web production cycle. Currently, I know front-end the best. I go in with very little experience working with databases, server-side programming, and GET/POST requests. Some of these seemingly basic concepts I have yet to understand at all. In 10 weeks not only will I have the knowledge, but the confidence to walk into any project with ease.

* **Tech Startup Culture**

If there's anything my recent work life has taught me, it that I cannot function in a corporate environment. At first, this made me depressed. I thought that the field I was so passionate about was going to lead me to a cubicle fixing a meaningless bug in 10 million lines of outdated code. Not that I fear a challenge, but I prefer to see results of my work and know that what I do is worth doing. I will learn from this internship how I can perform my best. It will also allow me to peer into the workings of a small tech company.

* **Sharpen Design Talent**

Even if I never get to touch CSS, I want to learn some design practices. This applies equally to back end. I'm curious to see how a professional firm handles database design and coding practices. Most of Punchmark's clients are jewelers, naturally their clients' websites are designed to showcase a product as well as a brand. I would love to do front-end all day: front-end is where I am comfortable. However, when I'm comfortable, I'm not growing. When I'm not growing, I'm dying.

I'm super tired. It's nearly 11pm. Couldn't sleep last night from anticipation. Good night!

For daily vlogs, follow me [@robhossboss](https://beme.com/robhossboss) on [Beme](https://beme.com) available on [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.beme.android) and [iOS App Store](https://geo.itunes.apple.com/us/app/beme-share-video.-honestly./id1005178547?mt=8).

This post was made possible by me.
Because I made it happen.
