---
layout: page
title:  "Contributing to Teensy: Introduction"
date:   2016-02-03 13:34:17 -0500
time: 1
categories: Project
image: "teensy"
---
> The Teensy is a complete USB-based microcontroller development system, in a very small footprint, capable of implementing many types of projects. All programming is done via the USB port.

This semester I am enrolled in an independent study led by my myself and three other colleagues. The course is centered on contributing to open source. We were attracted to Teensy because of our interest in hardware and furthermore, our lack of experience working  with low-level programming. Teensy also has a strong contributing community and excellent documentation for us noobs.

We began the process by beginning an email conversation with the founder of the Teensy project, Paul Stoffregen. We asked what would be the best area of focus for a group of students looking to contribute for a semester. Paul suggested working with the audio library. He said that the library needs more compelling examples that showcase the power of the Teensy audio capabilities.  For a more ambitious project, he suggested that we implement some new audio processing objects.

Currently, our team is scattered, dealing with heavy course loads and other responsibilities. We plan to form up this weekend to organize and plan out the next week for maximum productivity. Once our ordered Teensy boards arrive, the four of us will split into groups of two and pick a project to undertake and contribute to the Teensy project.

My interest lies in creating some audio objects. Particularly, a reverb object which has been requested by the community. To start we'll play around with the Teensy and get a feel for how it works and what it's capable of.

I'm looking forward to tinkering with the Teensy and learning some more about hardware and low-level programming.  
