---
layout: page
title: "Belonging to the Business"
date:   2016-06-17 18:00:00 -0500
categories: Experience
image: view-master
permalink: belonging
---

If you've ever worked for someone you go about your work day with one of two mindsets. Either you see your work as a job; a place to go for 8-10 hours and get paid for showing up and doing the bare minimal required to stay hired. Or you go to work feeling like you belong there. Like what you are doing matters to the company. If you don't show up to work that day X will not get done and this will be devastating to the business. This week I started feeling the latter.

In my last post about [my 3 biggest contributions to Punchmark](/contribution) I mentioned that I would likely be heading the effort to re-implement the Instagram API into our client's sites after Instagram's API permissions change. Our clients were beginning to get restless after two weeks of downtime for a feature that they pay for. Getting Instagram feed back on our client's sites was top priority. And I was given the lead. 

When I stepped into that role, it didn't feel any more different than the other tasks I've been working on. It wasn't until I finished it, that I really felt a sense of ownership of the project and a sense of real contribution to the company. 

With this project, others were asking ME for advice since I had done the most research on Instagram's new changes. I was the one proposing ideas for moving forward. I did all of the coding. I asked the others to complete smaller tasks for me like add new columns to all the client's databases. I felt like a leader and a key employee. 

Lastly, on Friday, I drafted a proposal to send off to Instagram so they could approve our application. In the proposal I was writing on behalf of Punchmark. 

We are a web design company with 200+ clients in the jewelry industry. Our clients are jewelry retailers and vendors who use our custom websites to promote their business and drive sales. We have built a widget to showcase our client's recent Instagram posts on their homepage. The client's are responsible for authenticating a branded Instagram account using our in-house content management system. After authentication we use the provided token to display recent posts from that client's Instagram account on the homepage of their website.

For daily vlogs, follow me [@robhossboss](https://beme.com/robhossboss) on [Beme](https://beme.com) available on [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.beme.android) and [iOS App Store](https://geo.itunes.apple.com/us/app/beme-share-video.-honestly./id1005178547?mt=8)
