---
layout: page
title:  "Internship Accomplishments"
date:   2016-07-29 13:34:17 -0500
time: 
categories: Experience
image: guitar-guy
permalink: summer-internship-accomplishments
---
The last post of this internship.

Time to look back on everyting I've contributed to Punchmark.

**SMS STOP/HELP**

Added functionality to automatically unsubscribe customers from Punchmark's automates SMS messaging platform. The functionality not only had to comply wiht the CTIA Short Code Handbook but also required a lot of backend mapping from customer to phonenumber to stores involved in teh subscription.

**Facebook API Upgrade**

Punchmark was running on v2.1 of Facebook's API wich was set to expire this August. I worked to ensure that all calls to Facebook API across the site were ported to the newest API standatd (at the time v2.6).

**XSS Filtering**

Created a funciton to strip potentially malicious text from form entries and implemented it across hundreds of files site-wide. There were several conflicts that resulted in broken pages. I learned a lot about testing and linting before pushing through the cleanup involved with this task.

**Instagram API Implementation**

Punchmark missed the memo about Instagram's new API change in June of this year. As a result, all calls to Instagram's API were failing. I created a server side (explicit) authentication flow to allow customers to authenticate their Instagram accounts. Through this process, the user grants the permsisions for use to view their  recent posts and we generate and store an authernitcation token to use when pulling their data. 

**API Streamlining and Caching**

I created modular classes and functions for API requests across all platforms that punchmark uses (Google+, Pinterest, Facebook, Instagram, and Yelp). 

Also cached results from API calls to common pages for the server to refer to in the sort term to prevent unecessary expensive requests on each page load. In the event that the API becomes unusable, the Punchmark team can refer to the resources stored in the cache temporiarilly. 

**Product Imports**

Lastly, this was somehting that I had started but was unable to finish during my time. Stuller is a jewelery vendor that provides and API for all of their products. I was working to use Stuller's API to pull their product inventory and convert it to our own product format for use by website clients. 



