---
layout: page
title: "3 Personal Daily Goals"
date:   2016-05-24 13:34:17 -0500
time: 1
categories: Experience
image: mountian-climber
permalink: summergoals
---

* **Something to Show**

Preferably, I'd like to be able to point to something specific at the end of each day and be able to say, "You see that? I made that." I'm a creative person. I feel most alive when I make something from nothing. Aside from satiating my need to make, this goal will entail many beneficial side effects. It provides a resum&egrave; point: i.e. "Built 12 server automation scripts for Punchmark" I will also gain experience building complete systems which aligns with the first [summer learning outcome](/summerlearning) I set for myself.

* **Learn Every Day**

Every minute of every hour of every day. Last semester that I discovered that I have trouble learning computer science in the classroom either the professors are too slow and I loose interest or I feel like I'm being forced to do work that doesn't matter just so my transcript places higher alphabetically. All I want to do is work on personal projects and learn by doing meaningful work. However, I have no free time during the semester because professors seem to think that making their students BS a lab report is a better use of our time. Anyways, I'm in my ideal learning environment. I want to make the most of it every day. I have motive to learn, I can instantly apply my learning and learn from my failures in a real work environment.  

* **Do More**

This is my life motto for this summer. I got the desktop wallpaper to prove it.

This is intentionally vague. What does it mean to me?

Do more...

- than is expected.
- than other people.
- meaningful work.
- things that get me excited.
- than I did yesterday.

I want to "Do More" everyday to get the most out of this summer.

I'm listening to inde hip-hop and sipping on a chai tea latt&egrave;.

For daily vlogs, follow me [@robhossboss](https://beme.com/robhossboss) on [Beme](https://beme.com) available on [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.beme.android) and [iOS App Store](https://geo.itunes.apple.com/us/app/beme-share-video.-honestly./id1005178547?mt=8).

Life is like going the wrong way on an escalator.
If you walk, you go nowhere.
If you stand still, you go backwards.
To get where you want to go, you have to hustle.
