---
layout: page
title:  "Contributing to Teensy: Game Plan"
date:  2016-03-28
time: 4
categories: Project
image: "retro-computer-control"
permalink: teensy3
---
At the start of this semester, I joined a small team to contribute to the Teensy Arduino
project. It's been rough. We have a month left to find the time to produce something
valuable to for the Teensy community.

### What we've done:

In the [last update](/teensy2) I wrote about our challenge to create a reverb audio object.
Since, my team and I have:
- assembled the Teensy hardware
- powered through the [Teensy audio tutorial](http://www.pjrc.com/teensy/td_libs_Audio.html)
- forked the Teensy audio library
- configured our Teensyduino environment to use our forked library for development

We've also made the dive into the code.

The bulk of the code is well abstracted, such that even with no experience with low
level audio, we can get started.

From [Teensy Audio Library delay](https://github.com/PaulStoffregen/Audio/blob/master/effect_delay.cpp) object:
<pre style="height:500px; overflow:scroll;">
  <code class="language-cpp">
  #include "effect_delay.h"

  void AudioEffectDelay::update(void)
  {
      audio_block_t *output;
      uint32_t head, tail, count, channel, index, prev, offset;
      const int16_t *src, *end;
      int16_t *dst;

      // grab incoming data and put it into the queue
      head = headindex;
      tail = tailindex;
      if (++head >= DELAY_QUEUE_SIZE) head = 0;
      if (head == tail) {
          release(queue[tail]);
          if (++tail >= DELAY_QUEUE_SIZE) tail = 0;
      }
      queue[head] = receiveReadOnly();
      headindex = head;

      // testing only.... don't allow null pointers into the queue
      // instead, fill the empty times with blocks of zeros
      //if (queue[head] == NULL) {
      //    queue[head] = allocate();
      //    if (queue[head]) {
      //        dst = queue[head]->data;
      //        end = dst + AUDIO_BLOCK_SAMPLES;
      //        do {
      //            *dst++ = 0;
      //        } while (dst < end);
      //    } else {
      //        digitalWriteFast(2, HIGH);
      //        delayMicroseconds(5);
      //        digitalWriteFast(2, LOW);
      //    }
      //}

      // discard unneeded blocks from the queue
      if (head >= tail) {
          count = head - tail;
      } else {
          count = DELAY_QUEUE_SIZE + head - tail;
      }
      if (count > maxblocks) {
          count -= maxblocks;
          do {
              release(queue[tail]);
              queue[tail] = NULL;
              if (++tail >= DELAY_QUEUE_SIZE) tail = 0;
          } while (--count > 0);
      }
      tailindex = tail;

      // transmit the delayed outputs using queue data
      for (channel = 0; channel < 8; channel++) {
          if (!(activemask & (1<<channel))) continue;
          index =  position[channel] / AUDIO_BLOCK_SAMPLES;
          offset = position[channel] % AUDIO_BLOCK_SAMPLES;
          if (head >= index) {
              index = head - index;
          } else {
              index = DELAY_QUEUE_SIZE + head - index;
          }
          if (offset == 0) {
              // delay falls on the block boundary
              if (queue[index]) {
                  transmit(queue[index], channel);
              }
          } else {
              // delay requires grabbing data from 2 blocks
              output = allocate();
              if (!output) continue;
              dst = output->data;
              if (index > 0) {
                  prev = index - 1;
              } else {
                  prev = DELAY_QUEUE_SIZE-1;
              }
              if (queue[prev]) {
                  end = queue[prev]->data + AUDIO_BLOCK_SAMPLES;
                  src = end - offset;
                  while (src < end) {
                      *dst++ = *src++; // TODO: optimize
                  }
              } else {
                  end = dst + offset;
                  while (dst < end) {
                      *dst++ = 0;
                  }
              }
              end = output->data + AUDIO_BLOCK_SAMPLES;
              if (queue[index]) {
                  src = queue[index]->data;
                  while (dst < end) {
                      *dst++ = *src++; // TODO: optimize
                  }
              } else {
                  while (dst < end) {
                      *dst++ = 0;
                  }
              }
              transmit(output, channel);
              release(output);
          }
      }

  }
  </code>
</pre>

### The problem with reverb:

In my research of digital audio effects I learned that a reverb is an effect achieved
by simulating multiple echoes that sound like they are originating from multiple sources.
I imagine we would achieve this by creating multiple audio buffers and playing them back
as a delay with offsets applied so they sound like the echo's source is at varying distances.
Each delay object would also have a defined plan amount to make it sound like its originating
from the left or right.

However, when familiarizing ourselves with the hardware and software of the Teensy we noticed
that increasing the buffer of a single delay object only slightly raised a memory warning
when compiled on the Teensy.

We're working with very limited resources but need to implement something quite memory intensive.

### Pivot.

We only want to make a valuable contribution to the Teensy Project. We also want to get
vale from the experience. So doing something relatively easy is not worth the time for me.
I would rather go for depth and not deliver any commit worthy code.

It seems our options at this point are the following:
- Stop research now and build tutorial examples.
- Continue doing mild research and contribute by adding documentation.
- Continue doing deep research and document our findings and progress for someone else to pick up.  

It is clear why a reverb object has yet to be created. Any research/progress/findings we can muster
would be helpful for someone who has more time/knowledge to put into this.

### Next.

We are going to create a new (useless) audio object just to see if we can.
Imagine the "Hello world!" of audio objects. From there we can try adding bits
from the delay object until we can bodge together a result.

We'll need to do more research on reverb implementations as well as the constraints
of the Teensy and how to overcome them.

We will have something to show for our work. Something to bring value to the Teensy
community and an experience working on a real life open sourced hardware project.
